abdominalextensiondepthsitting
(1) ABDOMINAL EXTENSION DEPTH, SITTING 
The horizontal distance between the abdominal point anterior and the back at the same 
level is measured with a beam caliper. The participant sits erect, looking straight ahead. 
The measurement is taken at the maximum point of quiet respiration. 
 

acromialheight
(2) ACROMIAL HEIGHT 
The vertical distance between a standing surface and the right acromion landmark is 
measured with an anthropometer. The participant stands erect, looking straight ahead. 
The heels are together with the weight distributed equally on both feet. The shoulders 
and upper extremities are relaxed. The measurement is taken at the maximum point of 
quiet respiration.  

acromionradialelength
(3) ACROMION-RADIALE LENGTH 
The distance between the right acromion landmark and the radiale landmark is 
measured with a beam caliper held parallel to the long axis of the arm. The participant 
stands erect. The shoulders and upper extremities are relaxed with the palms facing the 
thighs. 

anklecircumference
(4) ANKLE CIRCUMFERENCE 
The minimum horizontal circumference of the right ankle is measured with a tape. The 
participant stands with the feet about 10 cm apart and the weight distributed equally on 
both feet. 

axillaheight
(5) AXILLA HEIGHT 
The vertical distance between a standing surface and the anterior-scye-on-the-torso 
landmark is measured with an anthropometer. The participant stands erect, looking 
straight ahead. The heels are together with the weight distributed equally on both feet. 
The shoulders and upper extremities are relaxed with the palms facing the thighs. The 
measurement is taken at the maximum point of quiet respiration. 

balloffootcircumference
 (6) BALL OF FOOT CIRCUMFERENCE 
The circumference of the foot at the first and fifth metatarsophalangeal landmarks is 
measured with a tape. The participant stands with the feet about 10 cm apart and the 
weight distributed equally on both feet. 

balloffootlength
(7) BALL OF FOOT LENGTH 
The distance from the back of the heel to the landmark at the first metatarsophalangeal 
protrusion is measured with the Brannock Device®. The participant stands erect with the 
right foot in the Brannock Device® and the other foot on a board of equal height.  The 
weight is distributed equally on both feet. The medial side of the right foot is parallel with 
the long axis of the device. 

biacromialbreadth
(8) BIACROMIAL BREADTH 
The distance between the right and left acromion landmarks is measured with a beam 
caliper. The participant sits erect. The shoulders and upper arms are relaxed, and the 
forearms and hands are extended forward horizontally with the palms facing each other. 
The measurement is taken at the maximum point of quiet respiration. 

bicepscircumferenceflexed
(9) BICEPS CIRCUMFERENCE, FLEXED 
The circumference of the right upper arm around the flexed biceps brachii muscle at the 
biceps point landmark is measured with a tape held perpendicular to the long axis of the 
upper arm. The participant stands with the upper arm extended horizontally and the 
elbow flexed 90°. The fist is clenched and held facing the head, and the participant 
exerts maximum effort in contracting the biceps brachii muscle. 

bicristalbreadth
(10) BICRISTAL BREADTH 
The straight-line distance between the right and left iliocristale landmarks is measured 
with a beam caliper. The participant stands erect, looking straight ahead. The tissue is 
firmly compressed to ensure the measurement is taken on the bony landmarks.   
 

bideltoidbreadth
(11) BIDELTOID BREADTH 
The maximum horizontal distance between the lateral margins of the upper arms on the 
deltoid muscles is measured with a beam caliper. The participant sits erect, looking 
straight ahead. The shoulders and upper arms are relaxed, and the forearms and hands 
are extended forward horizontally with the palms facing each other. The measurement 
is taken at the maximum point of quiet respiration. 

bimalleolarbreadth
(12) BIMALLEOLAR BREADTH 
The horizontal distance between the maximum protrusions of the ankle bones (lateral 
and medial malleoli) of the right foot is measured with a Holtain caliper. The participant 
stands with the weight equally distributed on both feet. 

bitragionchinarc
(13) BITRAGION CHIN ARC 
The surface distance between the right and left tragion landmarks across the chin 
landmark is measured with a tape. The teeth are lightly occluded. 

bitragionsubmandibulararc
(14) BITRAGION SUBMANDIBULAR ARC 
The surface distance between the right and left tragion landmarks across the 
submandibular landmark is measured with a tape. The head is in the Frankfurt plane, 
and the teeth are lightly occluded. 

bizygomaticbreadth
(15) BIZYGOMATIC BREADTH 
The maximum horizontal breadth of the face (between the zygomatic arches) at the left 
and right zygion landmarks is measured with a spreading caliper. 

buttockcircumference
(16) BUTTOCK CIRCUMFERENCE 
The horizontal circumference of the trunk at the level of the buttock point, posterior, right 
and left lateral landmarks, is measured with a tape. The participant stands erect with the 
heels together and the weight equally distributed on both feet. 

buttockdepth
(17) BUTTOCK DEPTH 
The horizontal depth of the torso at the level of the buttock point, posterior and right 
lateral landmarks, is measured using a beam caliper. The participant stands erect with 
the heels together and the weight distributed equally on both feet. 

buttockheight
(18) BUTTOCK HEIGHT 
The vertical distance between a standing surface and the level of the buttock point, right 
lateral landmark, is measured with an anthropometer at the right side of the thigh. The 
participant stands erect with the heels together and the weight distributed equally on 
both feet. 

buttockkneelength
(19) BUTTOCK-KNEE LENGTH 
The horizontal distance between a buttock plate placed at the most posterior point on 
either buttock and the knee point, anterior landmark, is measured with an 
anthropometer. The participant sits erect. The thighs are parallel and the knees flexed 
90° with the feet in line with the thighs. 

buttockpopliteallength
(20) BUTTOCK-POPLITEAL LENGTH 
The horizontal distance between a buttock plate placed at the most posterior point on 
either buttock and the back of the right knee (the popliteal fossa at the dorsal juncture of 
the calf and thigh) is measured with an anthropometer. The participant sits erect. The 
thighs are parallel and the knees flexed 90° with the feet in line with the thighs. 
 

calfcircumference
(21) CALF CIRCUMFERENCE 
The maximum horizontal circumference of the right calf is measured with a tape. The 
participant stands erect with the heels approximately 10 cm apart and the weight 
distributed equally on both feet. 

cervicaleheight
(22) CERVICALE HEIGHT* 
The vertical distance between a standing surface and the cervicale landmark is 
measured with an anthropometer. The participant stands erect with the head in the 
Frankfurt plane. The heels are together with the weight distributed equally on both feet. 
The shoulders and upper extremities are relaxed. The measurement is taken at the 
maximum point of quiet respiration 

chestbreadth
(23) CHEST BREADTH* 
The maximum horizontal breadth of the chest at the level of the chest point anterior 
landmark is measured with a beam caliper. The participant stands erect, looking straight 
ahead with the heels together and the weight distributed evenly on both feet. The 
participant places both hands on the hips and takes a deep breath and holds it. The 
tissue is compressed with the beam caliper, and then the participant lowers the arms.  
The measurement is taken at maximum inspiration. 

chestcircumference
(24) CHEST CIRCUMFERENCE* 
The maximum horizontal circumference of the chest at the level of chest point, anterior 
is measured with a tape. The participant stands erect, looking straight ahead. The 
shoulders and upper extremities are relaxed. The measurement is taken at the 
maximum point of quiet respiration. 

chestdepth
(25) CHEST DEPTH* 
The horizontal distance between the chest point anterior landmark and the back at the 
same level is measured with a beam caliper. The participant stands erect, looking 
straight ahead. The shoulders and upper extremities are relaxed. The measurement is 
taken at the maximum point of quiet respiration. 

chestheight
(26) CHEST HEIGHT* 
The vertical distance between a standing surface and the chest point anterior landmark 
is measured with an anthropometer. The participant stands erect, looking straight 
ahead. The heels are together with the weight distributed equally on both feet. The 
shoulders and upper extremities are relaxed. The measurement is taken at the 
maximum point of quiet respiration. 

crotchheight
(27) CROTCH HEIGHT 
The vertical distance between the standing surface and the crotch is measured with an 
anthropometer. The participant stands erect, looking straight ahead. The heels are 
together, and the weight is distributed equally on both feet. 

crotchlengthomphalion
(28) CROTCH LENGTH (OMPHALION) 
The distance between the abdomen at the level of the omphalion landmark to the same 
level on the back is measured with a tape passing through the crotch to the right of the 
genitalia. The tape is held vertically both in front and in back. The participant stands 
erect, looking straight ahead. The heels are together with the weight distributed equally 
on both feet. The measurement is taken at the maximum point of quiet respiration. 

crotchlengthposterioromphalion
(29) CROTCH LENGTH, POSTERIOR (OMPHALION) 
The surface distance from the crotch at the inner thigh landmark to the omphalion 
posterior landmark is measured with a tape. The tape passes between the buttocks to 
the back of the waist. The participant stands with the left foot on a platform so that the 
knee is flexed. 

earbreadth
(30) EAR BREADTH 
The maximum breadth of the right ear perpendicular to its long axis is measured with a 
sliding caliper. 

earlength
(31) EAR LENGTH 
The length of the right ear, from its highest to lowest points on a line parallel to the long 
axis of the ear, is measured with a sliding caliper. 

earprotrusion
(32) EAR PROTRUSION 
The horizontal distance between the mastoid process and the outside edge of the right 
ear at its most lateral point is measured using a sliding caliper with its slide reversed. 

elbowrestheight
(33) ELBOW REST HEIGHT 
The vertical distance between a sitting surface and the olecranon, bottom landmark on 
the flexed right elbow, is measured with an anthropometer. The participant sits erect, 
looking straight ahead. The shoulders and upper arms are relaxed, and the forearms 
and hands are extended forward horizontally with the palms facing each other. The 
measurement is taken at the maximum point of quiet respiration. 

eyeheightsitting
(34) EYE HEIGHT, SITTING 
The vertical distance between a sitting surface and the ectocanthus landmark is 
measured with an anthropometer. The participant sits erect with the head in the 
Frankfurt plane. The shoulders and upper arms are relaxed, and the forearms and 
hands are extended forward horizontally with the palms facing each other. The thighs 
are parallel, and the knees are flexed 90° with the feet in line with the thighs. The 
measurement is taken at the maximum point of quiet respiration. 

footbreadthhorizontal
(35) FOOT BREADTH, HORIZONTAL 
The maximum breadth of the right foot is measured with a Brannock Device®. The 
participant stands with the right foot on the device and the left foot on a board of equal 
height with the weight distributed equally on both feet. The heel of the right foot lightly 
touches the back of the device, and the medial side of the right foot is parallel with the 
long axis of the device. The vertical slide of the device is moved until it lightly touches 
the fifth metatarsophalangeal protrusion landmark. 

footlength
(36) FOOT LENGTH 
The maximum length of the right foot is measured with a Brannock Device®. The 
participant stands with the right foot on the device and the left foot on a board of equal 
height with the weight distributed equally on both feet. The heel of the right foot lightly 
touches the back of the device, and the medial side of the right foot is parallel with the 
long axis of the device. A block is placed against the tip of the longest toe to establish 
the measurement on the scale of the device. 

forearmcenterofgriplength
(37) FOREARM-CENTER OF GRIP LENGTH 
The horizontal distance between the olecranon rear landmark and the center of a 
1-1/4”-diameter dowel gripped in the right hand is measured with a beam caliper. 
The participant stands erect with the upper arms hanging at the side and the right 
elbow flexed 90°. The hand grips a 1-1/4”-diameter dowel placed on the fixed 
blade of a beam caliper. The hand gripping the dowel should be in line with the 
long axis of the arm. 

forearmcircumferenceflexed
(38) FOREARM CIRCUMFERENCE, FLEXED 
The circumference of the flexed right forearm is measured with a tape passing across 
the crease at the juncture between the upper arm and the forearm. The measurement is 
taken in a plane perpendicular to the long axis of the forearm. The participant stands 
with the upper arm extended forward horizontally, the elbow flexed 90°, and the fist 
tightly clenched with palm facing the head. 

forearmforearmbreadth
(39) FOREARM-FOREARM BREADTH 
The maximum horizontal distance across the upper body between the outer sides of the 
forearms is measured with a beam caliper. The participant sits erect, looking straight 
ahead.  The shoulders and upper arms are relaxed, and the forearms and hands are 
extended forward horizontally with the palms facing each other. The measurement is 
taken at the maximum point of quiet respiration. 

forearmhandlength
(40) FOREARM-HAND LENGTH 
The horizontal distance between the olecranon rear landmark and the dactylion III 
landmark is measured with a beam caliper. The participant stands erect with the upper 
arms hanging at the sides and the right elbow flexed 90°. The hand is held out straight 
with the palm facing inward. 

functionalleglength
(41) FUNCTIONAL LEG LENGTH 
The straight-line distance between the plane of the bottom of the right foot with the leg 
extended and the back of the body of a seated participant is measured with an 
anthropometer passing over the trochanter landmark. The participant sits erect on a 
stool 45.81 cm high. The right leg is extended, and the foot is on the base plate of the 
anthropometer, which rests on the floor. The measurement is taken from the footrest 
surface of the base plate. 

handbreadth
(42) HAND BREADTH 
The breadth of the right hand between the landmarks at metacarpale II and metacarpale 
V is measured with a sliding caliper. The participant places the palm on a table with the 
fingers together and the thumb abducted. The middle finger is parallel to the long axis of 
the forearm. The two distal phalanges of the fingers lie on a flat surface 8 mm higher 
than the table. 

handcircumference
(43) HAND CIRCUMFERENCE 
The circumference of the right hand is measured with a tape passing over the 
landmarks at metacarpale II and metacarpale V. The participant places the palm on a 
table with the fingers together and the thumb abducted. The middle finger is parallel to 
the long axis of the forearm. The two distal phalanges of the fingers lie on a flat surface 
8 mm higher than the table. 

handlength
(44) HAND LENGTH 
The length of the right hand between the stylion landmark on the wrist and the tip of the 
middle finger is measured with a Poech sliding caliper. The participant places the palm 
on a table with the fingers together and the thumb abducted. The middle finger is 
parallel to the long axis of the forearm. The two distal phalanges of the fingers lie on a 
flat surface 8 mm higher than the table. 

headbreadth
(45) HEAD BREADTH 
The maximum horizontal breadth of the head above the plane of attachment of the ears 
is measured with a spreading caliper. For female participants with braids or cornrows, 
the measurement includes the styled hair.  

headcircumference
(46) HEAD CIRCUMFERENCE 
The maximum circumference of the head above the attachment of the ears is measured 
with a tape passing just above the ridges of the eyebrows and around the back of the 
head.  For female participants with braids or cornrows, the measurement includes the 
styled hair.  

headlength
(47) HEAD LENGTH 
The distance from the glabella landmark to the opisthocranion landmark is measured 
with a spreading caliper.  For female participants with braids or cornrows, the 
measurement includes the styled hair.  

heelanklecircumference
(48) HEEL-ANKLE CIRCUMFERENCE 
The circumference of the right foot is measured with a tape passing over the point at 
which the heel first contacts the table and over the dorsal juncture of the foot and leg 
landmark at the front of the ankle. The participant stands with the feet about 10 cm 
apart and the weight distributed equally on both feet. 

heelbreadth
(49) HEEL BREADTH 
The maximum horizontal distance between the medial and lateral points of the right 
heel, at or posterior to the lateral malleolus landmark, is measured with a Holtain 
caliper. The measurement is taken just above the level of the standing surface at the 
most protruding points of the curvature of the heel. The participant stands with the feet 
about 10 cm apart and the weight distributed equally on both feet. 

hipbreadth
(50) HIP BREADTH 
The horizontal distance between the lateral buttock landmarks is measured with a beam 
caliper. The participant stands erect with the heels together and the weight distributed 
equally on both feet. 

hipbreadthsitting
(51) HIP BREADTH, SITTING 
The distance between the lateral points of the hips or thighs (whichever are broader) is 
measured with a beam caliper. The participant sits erect with the feet and knees 
together. 

iliocristaleheight
(52) ILIOCRISTALE HEIGHT 
The vertical distance between a standing surface and the right iliocristale landmark is 
measured with an anthropometer. The participant stands erect with the heels together 
and the weight distributed equally on both feet. The shoulders and upper extremities are 
relaxed. 

interpupillarybreadth
(53) INTERPUPILLARY BREADTH 
The distance between the two pupils is measured with a pupillometer. 

interscyei
(54) INTERSCYE I 
The distance across the back between the right and left posterior axillary fold landmarks 
is measured with a tape. The tape is held on the skin surface except where the tape 
spans the hollow of the back. The participant stands erect, looking straight ahead. The 
heels are together with the weight distributed equally on both feet. The shoulders and 
upper extremities are relaxed. The measurement is taken at the maximum point of quiet 
respiration. 

interscyeii
(55) INTERSCYE II 
The distance across the back between the right and left midscye landmarks is 
measured with a tape. The tape is held on the skin surface except where it spans the 
hollow of the back. The participant stands erect, looking straight ahead. The heels are 
together with the weight distributed equally on both feet. The shoulders and upper 
extremities are relaxed. The measurement is taken at the maximum point of quiet 
respiration. 

kneeheightmidpatella
(56) KNEE HEIGHT, MIDPATELLA 
The vertical distance between a standing surface and the midpatella landmark is 
measured with an anthropometer. The participant stands erect with the heels together 
and the weight distributed equally on both feet. 

kneeheightsitting
(57) KNEE HEIGHT, SITTING 
The vertical distance between a footrest surface and the suprapatella landmark is 
measured with an anthropometer. The participant sits with the thighs parallel, the knees 
flexed 90°, and the feet in line with the thighs. 

lateralfemoralepicondyleheight
(58) LATERAL FEMORAL EPICONDYLE HEIGHT 
The vertical distance between a standing surface and the standing lateral femoral 
epicondyle landmark is measured with an anthropometer. The participant stands erect 
with the heels together and the weight distributed equally on both feet. 

lateralmalleolusheight
(59) LATERAL MALLEOLUS HEIGHT 
The vertical distance between a standing surface and the lateral malleolus landmark is 
measured with a modified height gauge. The participant stands erect with the heels 
together and the weight distributed equally on both feet. 

lowerthighcircumference
(60) LOWER THIGH CIRCUMFERENCE 
The horizontal circumference of the right thigh at the level of the suprapatella landmark 
is measured with a tape. The participant stands erect with the feet about 10 cm apart 
and the weight distributed equally on both feet. 

mentonsellionlength
(61) MENTON-SELLION LENGTH 
The distance between the menton landmark and the sellion landmark is measured with 
a sliding caliper. The teeth are lightly occluded. 

neckcircumference
(62) NECK CIRCUMFERENCE 
The circumference of the neck at the level of the infrathyroid landmark (Adam's apple) is 
measured with a tape. The plane of the measurement is perpendicular to the long axis 
of the neck. The participant stands erect with the head in the Frankfurt plane. The 
shoulders and upper extremities are relaxed. 

neckcircumferencebase
(63) NECK CIRCUMFERENCE, BASE 
The circumference of the base of the neck is measured with a tape, passing over the 
drawn lateral and anterior neck landmarks. The participant stands erect with the head in 
the Frankfurt plane. The shoulders and upper extremities are relaxed. 

overheadfingertipreachsitting
(64) OVERHEAD FINGERTIP REACH, SITTING 
The vertical distance between a sitting surface and the dactylion III landmark of a 
seated participant whose arm is extended overhead is measured with an 
anthropometer. The participant sits erect on a flat surface 45.8 cm high with the right 
arm and hand extended vertically overhead as far as possible and the palm of the hand 
facing forward. The measurement is taken at the maximum point of quiet respiration. 

palmlength
(65) PALM LENGTH 
The distance between the center of the crease at the base of the middle finger 
(digit III, base) and the ventral stylion landmark is measured with a Poech sliding 
caliper.  The participant holds the right forearm horizontal with the hand straight, 
palm up. The fingers are together, and the thumb is abducted approximately 45°.  
The middle finger is parallel to the long axis of the forearm. 

poplitealheight
(66) POPLITEAL HEIGHT 
The vertical distance from a footrest surface to the back of the right knee (the popliteal 
fossa at the dorsal juncture of the calf and thigh) is measured with an anthropometer. 
The participant sits with the thighs parallel, the feet in line with the thighs, and the knees 
flexed 90°. 

radialestylionlength
(67) RADIALE-STYLION LENGTH 
The distance between the radiale landmark and the stylion landmark is measured with a 
beam caliper held parallel to the long axis of the forearm. The participant stands with 
the arms relaxed at the sides. The hand and fingers are held straight in line with the 
long axis of the forearm with the palm facing forward.  

shouldercircumference
(68) SHOULDER CIRCUMFERENCE* 
The circumference of the shoulders at the level of the right and left deltoid point 
landmarks is measured with a tape. The participant stands erect, looking straight 
ahead. The shoulders and upper extremities are relaxed with the palms facing the 
thighs. The measurement is taken at the maximum point of quiet respiration. 

shoulderelbowlength
(69) SHOULDER-ELBOW LENGTH 
The distance between the right acromion landmark and the olecranon bottom landmark 
is measured with a beam caliper parallel to the long axis of the upper arm. The 
participant stands with the right upper arm hanging at the side and the elbow flexed 90°. 
The hand is straight, and the palm faces inward. 

shoulderlength
(70) SHOULDER LENGTH 
The surface distance between the right trapezius landmark and the right acromion 
landmark is measured with a tape. The participant stands erect, looking straight ahead. 
The shoulders and upper extremities are relaxed. 

sittingheight
(71) SITTING HEIGHT 
The vertical distance between a sitting surface and the top of the head is measured with 
an anthropometer. The participant sits erect with the head in the Frankfurt plane. The 
shoulders and upper arms are relaxed, and the forearms and hands are extended 
forward horizontally with the palms facing each other. The thighs are parallel, and the 
knees are flexed 90° with the feet in line with the thighs. The measurement is taken at 
the maximum point of quiet respiration. 

sleevelengthspinewrist
(72) SLEEVE LENGTH: SPINE-WRIST 
The horizontal surface distance from the midspine landmark, across the olecranon, 
center landmark at the tip of the raised right elbow, to the dorsal stylion landmark is 
measured with a tape. The measurement is taken while the participant holds his/her 
arms up in a horizontal position parallel to the standing surface and joins them by 
bringing the fists together at the metacarpophalangeal and proximal interphalangeal 
knuckles. The forearms and fists are in a straight line. 

sleeveoutseam
(73) SLEEVE OUTSEAM 
The straight-line distance between the right acromion landmark and the stylion 
landmark is measured with a tape. The participant stands erect with both arms straight 
at the sides with the hands straight and the palms facing forward. 

span
(74) SPAN 
The distance between the tips of the middle fingers (dactylion III) of the horizontally 
outstretched arms is measured on a wall chart. The participant stands erect with the 
back against a wall-mounted scale and the heels together. Both arms and hands are 
stretched horizontally along the wall with the tip of the middle finger of one hand just 
touching a side wall. A block is placed at the tip of the middle finger of the other hand to 
establish the measurement on the scale. The measurement is taken at the maximum 
point of quiet respiration. 

stature
(75) STATURE 
The vertical distance from a standing surface to the top of the head is measured with an 
anthropometer. The participant stands erect with the head in the Frankfurt plane. The 
heels are together with the weight distributed equally on both feet. The shoulders and 
upper extremities are relaxed. The measurement is taken at the maximum point of quiet 
respiration. 

suprasternaleheight
(76) SUPRASTERNALE HEIGHT 
The vertical distance between a standing surface and the suprasternale landmark is 
measured with an anthropometer. The participant stands erect, looking straight ahead. 
The heels are together with the weight distributed equally on both feet. The shoulders 
and upper extremities are relaxed. The measurement is taken at the maximum point of 
quiet respiration. 

tenthribheight
(77) TENTH RIB HEIGHT 
The vertical distance between a standing surface and the tenth rib landmark is 
measured with an anthropometer. The participant stands erect, looking straight ahead. 
The heels are together with the weight distributed equally on both feet. The shoulders 
and upper extremities are relaxed. The measurement is taken at the maximum point of 
quiet respiration. 

thighcircumference
(78) THIGH CIRCUMFERENCE 
The circumference of the right thigh at the gluteal furrow landmark is measured with a 
tape. The measurement is taken perpendicular to the long axis of the thigh. The 
participant stands erect with the weight distributed equally on both feet. The legs are 
spread apart just enough so that the thighs do not touch. 

thighclearance
(79) THIGH CLEARANCE 
The vertical distance between a sitting surface and the thigh point, top landmark is 
measured with an anthropometer. The participant sits with the thighs parallel, knees 
flexed 90°, and the feet in line with the thighs. 

thumbtipreach
(80) THUMBTIP REACH 
The horizontal distance from a back wall to the tip of the right thumb is measured on a 
wall scale. The participant stands erect in a corner, looking straight ahead with the feet 
together and the heels 20 cm from the back wall. The buttocks and shoulders are 
against the wall. The right arm and hand, palm down, are stretched forward horizontally 
along a scale on the side wall. The thumb continues the horizontal line of the arm, and 
the remaining fingers curve around to form a fist. The participant's right shoulder is held 
against the rear wall (not shown in the photo in order to show participant position). 
  

tibialheight
(81) TIBIAL HEIGHT 
The vertical distance between a standing surface and the tibiale landmark is 
measured with an anthropometer. The participant stands erect on a table with the 
feet together and the weight distributed equally on both feet. 

tragiontopofhead
(82) TRAGION - TOP OF HEAD 
The vertical distance between the right tragion landmark and the horizontal plane 
tangent to the top of the head is measured with a beam caliper with a paddle blade. 
The participant sits with the head in the Frankfurt plane.  For female participants with 
braids or cornrows, the measurement includes the styled hair.  
   

trochanterionheight
(83) TROCHANTERION HEIGHT 
The vertical distance between a standing surface and the trochanterion landmark is 
measured with an anthropometer. The participant stands erect, looking straight ahead. 
The heels are together with the weight distributed equally on both feet. 

verticaltrunkcircumferenceusa
(84) VERTICAL TRUNK CIRCUMFERENCE (USA) 
The vertical circumference of the torso is measured with a tape passing over the buttock 
point posterior landmark, to the right of the genitalia, midway between the sternum 
and the anterior axillary fold, and across the midshoulder landmark.  The participant 
stands erect, looking straight ahead with the right arm hanging relaxed at the side. The 
heels are together with the weight distributed equally on both feet. The measurement is 
taken at the maximum point of quiet respiration. 

waistbacklengthomphalion
(85) WAIST BACK LENGTH (OMPHALION)* 
The surface distance between the cervicale landmark and the posterior omphalion 
landmark is measured with a tape. The participant stands erect with the head in the 
Frankfurt plane. The shoulders and upper extremities are relaxed. The measurement is 
taken at the maximum point of quiet respiration. 

waistbreadth
(86) WAIST BREADTH 
The horizontal breadth of the waist at the level of omphalion is measured with a beam 
caliper. The participant stands erect, looking straight ahead. The heels are together with 
the weight distributed equally on both feet. The measurement is taken at the maximum 
point of quiet respiration. 

waistcircumferenceomphalion
(87) WAIST CIRCUMFERENCE (OMPHALION) 
The horizontal circumference of the waist, passing over all omphalion landmarks, is 
measured with a tape. The participant stands erect, looking straight ahead. The heels 
are together with the weight distributed equally on both feet. The measurement is taken 
at the maximum point of quiet respiration. 

waistdepth
(88) WAIST DEPTH 
The horizontal distance between the anterior and posterior omphalion landmarks is 
measured with a beam caliper. The participant stands erect, looking straight ahead. The 
heels are together with the weight distributed equally on both feet. The measurement is 
taken at the maximum point of quiet respiration. 

waistfrontlengthsitting
(89) WAIST FRONT LENGTH, SITTING 
The surface distance between the suprasternale landmark and the anterior 
omphalion landmark is measured with a tape.  The participant is in the 
anthropometric sitting position with the head in the Frankfurt plane and the arms 
relaxed at the sides. The measurement is taken at the maximum point of quiet 
respiration. 

waistheightomphalion
(90) WAIST HEIGHT (OMPHALION) 
The vertical distance between a standing surface and the anterior omphalion landmark 
is measured with an anthropometer. The participant stands erect, looking straight 
ahead. The heels are together with the weight distributed equally on both feet. The 
shoulders and upper extremities are relaxed. The measurement is taken at the 
maximum point of quiet respiration. 

weight
(91) WEIGHT 
The weight of the participant is taken to the nearest tenth of a kilogram. The participant 
stands on the platform of a scale with the weight distributed evenly on both feet. 

wristcircumference
(92) WRIST CIRCUMFERENCE 
The circumference of the wrist, perpendicular to the long axis of the forearm, is 
measured with a tape passing over the stylion landmark. The participant extends the 
right arm forward with the palm up. 

wristheight
(93) WRIST HEIGHT 
The vertical distance between a standing surface and the stylion landmark is measured 
with an anthropometer. The participant stands erect, looking straight ahead with the 
heels together and the weight distributed equally on both feet. The shoulders are 
relaxed, and the arms are extended downwards with the elbow, wrist, and fingers held 
rigidly straight. The arms lightly touch the sides. The measurement is taken at the 
maximum point of quiet respiration. 

abdominallink
(D1) ABDOMINAL LINK 
The vertical distance between the tenth rib landmark and the iliocristale landmark on the 
right side is calculated as follows: TENTH RIB HEIGHT minus ILIOCRISTALE HEIGHT. 

acromialheightsitting
(D2) ACROMIAL HEIGHT, SITTING 
The vertical distance between a sitting surface and the right acromion landmark is 
calculated as follows:  SITTING HEIGHT minus (STATURE minus ACROMIAL 
HEIGHT). 

acromionaxillalength
(D3) ACROMION-AXILLA LENGTH 
The vertical distance between the acromion right landmark and the anterior-scye-on-
the-torso landmark of a participant standing erect with the arms relaxed at the sides is 
calculated as follows: ACROMIAL HEIGHT minus AXILLA HEIGHT. 

armlength
(D4) ARM LENGTH 
The vertical distance between the acromion right landmark and the dactylion III 
landmark of a participant standing erect with the arms straight at the sides is calculated 
as follows: ACROMIAL HEIGHT minus WRIST HEIGHT plus HAND LENGTH. 

axillawaistlengthomphalion
(D5) AXILLA-WAIST LENGTH (OMPHALION) 
The vertical distance between the anterior-scye-on-the-torso landmark and the anterior 
omphalion landmark is calculated as follows: AXILLA HEIGHT minus WAIST HEIGHT 
(OMPHALION). 

calflink
(D6) CALF LINK 
The vertical distance between the lateral femoral epicondyle landmark and the lateral 
malleolus landmark is calculated as follows: LATERAL FEMORAL EPICONDYLE 
HEIGHT minus LATERAL MALLEOLUS HEIGHT. 

cervicaleheightsitting
(D7) CERVICALE HEIGHT, SITTING* 
The vertical distance between a sitting surface and the cervicale landmark is calculated 
as follows: SITTING HEIGHT minus (STATURE minus CERVICALE HEIGHT). 

chestheightsitting
(D8) CHEST HEIGHT, SITTING* 
The vertical distance between a sitting surface and the chest point, anterior landmark is 
calculated as follows: SITTING HEIGHT minus (STATURE minus CHEST HEIGHT). 

chestwaistdropomphalion
(D9) CHEST-WAIST DROP (OMPHALION)* 
The difference between the circumference of the chest and the circumference of the 
waist at omphalion is calculated as follows: CHEST CIRCUMFERENCE minus WAIST 
CIRCUMFERENCE (OMPHALION). 

claviclelink
(D10) CLAVICLE LINK 
The distance between the midline of the body and the acromion right landmark is 
calculated as one-half of BIACROMIAL BREADTH. 

crotchlengthanterioromphalion
(D11) CROTCH LENGTH, ANTERIOR (OMPHALION) 
The surface distance between the inner thigh landmark and the abdomen at the level of 
the waist at the navel (omphalion) of a participant standing with one leg on a step is 
calculated as follows: CROTCH LENGTH (OMPHALION) minus CROTCH LENGTH, 
POSTERIOR (OMPHALION). 

dactylionheight
(D12) DACTYLION HEIGHT 
The vertical distance between a standing surface and the dactylion III landmark of a 
participant standing erect with the arms and hands straight at the sides is calculated as 
follows: WRIST HEIGHT minus HAND LENGTH. 

dactylionreachfromwall
(D13) DACTYLION REACH FROM WALL 
The horizontal distance between the plane of the back and the dactylion III landmark of 
a participant standing erect with the back against a wall and the arm, hand, and fingers 
extended forward horizontally is calculated as follows: THUMBTIP REACH plus 
(ANSUR mean of HAND LENGTH minus ANSUR mean of WRIST-THUMBTIP 
LENGTH). 

elbowrestheightstanding
(D14) ELBOW REST HEIGHT, STANDING 
The vertical distance between a standing surface and the olecranon bottom landmark of 
a participant standing erect with the forearm and hand held horizontally is calculated as 
follows: ELBOW REST HEIGHT plus STATURE minus SITTING HEIGHT. 

elbowwristlength
(D15) ELBOW-WRIST LENGTH 
The horizontal distance between the olecranon rear landmark and the stylion landmark 
of a participant standing with the forearm and hand held horizontally is calculated as 
follows: FOREARM-HAND LENGTH minus HAND LENGTH. 

eyeheight
(D16) EYE HEIGHT 
The vertical distance between a standing surface and the ectocanthus landmark of a 
participant standing erect with the head in the Frankfurt plane is calculated as follows: 
EYE HEIGHT SITTING plus STATURE minus SITTING HEIGHT. 

functionalgripreach
(D17) FUNCTIONAL GRIP REACH 
The horizontal distance between the vertical plane of the back and the center of a 1-1/4-
in diameter dowel gripped in the right hand of a participant standing erect with the back 
against a wall and the arm and hand extended forward horizontally is calculated as 
follows: THUMBTIP REACH minus ANSUR mean of WRIST-THUMBTIP LENGTH plus 
ANSUR mean of WRIST-CENTER OF GRIP LENGTH. 

indexfingerreach
(D18) INDEX FINGER REACH 
The horizontal distance between the vertical plane of the back and the tip of the right 
index finger of a participant standing erect with the back against a wall and the arm, 
hand, and fingers extended forward horizontally is calculated as follows: THUMBTIP 
REACH minus ANSUR mean of WRIST-THUMBTIP LENGTH plus ANSUR mean of 
WRIST-INDEX FINGER LENGTH. 

neckbuttocklength
(D19) NECK-BUTTOCK LENGTH 
The vertical distance between the cervicale landmark and the buttock point right 
landmark is calculated as follows: CERVICALE HEIGHT minus BUTTOCK HEIGHT. 

necklink
(D20) NECK LINK 
The vertical distance between the cervicale landmark and the tragion landmark is 
calculated as follows: STATURE minus TRAGION-TOP OF HEAD minus CERVICALE 
HEIGHT. 

neckscyelength
(D21) NECK-SCYE LENGTH 
The vertical distance between the cervicale landmark and the anterior scye landmark is 
calculated as follows: CERVICALE HEIGHT minus AXILLA HEIGHT. 

pelviclink
(D22) PELVIC LINK 
The vertical distance between the iliocristale right landmark and the level of the 
trochanterion landmark is calculated as follows: ILIOCRISTALE HEIGHT minus 
TROCHANTERION HEIGHT. 

riseomphalion
(D23) RISE (OMPHALION) 
The vertical distance between the level of the waist at the navel (omphalion) and the 
crotch of a participant standing erect is calculated as follows: WAIST HEIGHT 
(OMPHALION) minus CROTCH HEIGHT. 

shoulderwaistlengthomphalion
(D24) SHOULDER-WAIST LENGTH (OMPHALION) 
The vertical distance between the acromion right landmark and the level of the waist at 
the navel (omphalion) of a participant standing erect is calculated as follows: 
ACROMIAL HEIGHT minus WAIST HEIGHT (OMPHALION). 

sleeveinseam
(D25) SLEEVE INSEAM 
The vertical distance between the anterior-scye-on-the-torso landmark and the stylion 
landmark of a participant standing erect with the arms straight at the sides is calculated 
as follows: AXILLA HEIGHT minus WRIST HEIGHT. 

suprasternaleheightsitting
(D26) SUPRASTERNALE HEIGHT, SITTING 
The vertical distance between a sitting surface and the suprasternale landmark of a 
participant sitting erect is calculated as follows: SUPRASTERNALE HEIGHT minus 
(STATURE minus SITTING HEIGHT). 

suprasternaletenthriblength
(D27) SUPRASTERNALE-TENTH RIB LENGTH 
The vertical distance between the suprasternale landmark and the tenth rib landmark is 
calculated as follows: SUPRASTERNALE HEIGHT minus TENTH RIB HEIGHT. 

suprasternalewaistlengthomphalion
(D28) SUPRASTERNALE-WAIST LENGTH (OMPHALION) 
The vertical distance between the suprasternale landmark and the waist (omphalion) 
landmark is calculated as follows: SUPRASTERNALE HEIGHT minus WAIST HEIGHT 
(OMPHALION). 

thighlink
(D29) THIGH LINK 
The vertical distance between the trochanterion landmark and the lateral femoral 
epicondyle landmark is calculated as follows: TROCHANTERION HEIGHT minus 
LATERAL FEMORAL EPICONDYLE HEIGHT. 

thoraxlink
(D30) THORAX LINK 
The vertical distance between the cervicale landmark and tenth rib landmark is 
calculated as follows: CERVICALE HEIGHT minus TENTH RIB HEIGHT. 

tragionheight
(D31) TRAGION HEIGHT 
The vertical distance between a standing surface and the tragion landmark of a 
participant standing erect with the head in the Frankfurt plane is calculated as follows: 
STATURE minus TRAGION-TOP OF HEAD. 

tragionheightsitting
(D32) TRAGION HEIGHT, SITTING 
The vertical distance between a sitting surface and the tragion landmark of a participant 
sitting erect with the head in the Frankfurt plane is calculated as follows: SITTING 
HEIGHT minus TRAGION-TOP OF HEAD. 

verticalgripreach
(D33) VERTICAL GRIP REACH 
The vertical distance between a standing surface and the center of a 1-1/4-in diameter 
dowel gripped horizontally in the right hand of a participant standing erect with the 
shoulder, arm, and hand held straight overhead is calculated as follows: OVERHEAD 
FINGERTIP REACH SITTING plus (STATURE minus SITTING HEIGHT) minus 
ANSUR mean of HAND LENGTH plus ANSUR mean of WRIST-CENTER OF GRIP 
LENGTH. 

verticalgripreachdown
(D34) VERTICAL GRIP REACH DOWN 
The vertical distance between the acromion right landmark and the center of a 1-1/4-in 
diameter dowel gripped horizontally in the right hand of a participant standing erect with 
the arms held straight at the sides is calculated as follows: ACROMIAL HEIGHT minus 
WRIST HEIGHT plus ANSUR mean of WRIST-CENTER OF GRIP LENGTH. 

verticalgripreachsitting
(D35) VERTICAL GRIP REACH, SITTING 
The vertical distance between a sitting surface and the center of a 1-1/4-in diameter 
dowel gripped horizontally in the right hand of a participant sitting erect with the arm 
held straight overhead is calculated as follows: OVERHEAD FINGERTIP REACH 
SITTING minus ANSUR mean of HAND LENGTH plus ANSUR mean of WRIST-
CENTER OF GRIP LENGTH. 

verticalindexfingertipreach
(D36) VERTICAL INDEX FINGERTIP REACH 
The vertical distance between a standing surface and the tip of the right index finger of 
a participant standing erect with the right shoulder, arm, and fingers stretched straight 
overhead is calculated as follows: OVERHEAD FINGERTIP REACH SITTING plus 
(STATURE minus SITTING HEIGHT) minus (ANSUR mean of HAND LENGTH minus 
ANSUR mean of WRIST-INDEX FINGER LENGTH). 

verticalindexfingertipreachsitting
(D37) VERTICAL INDEX FINGERTIP REACH, SITTING 
The vertical distance between a sitting surface and the tip of the right index finger of a 
participant sitting erect and raising the right shoulder, arm, and fingers straight overhead 
is calculated as follows: OVERHEAD FINGERTIP REACH SITTING minus ANSUR 
mean of HAND LENGTH plus ANSUR mean of WRIST-INDEX FINGER LENGTH. 

verticalthumbtipreachsitting
(D38) VERTICAL THUMBTIP REACH, SITTING 
The vertical distance between a sitting surface and the tip of the right thumb of a 
participant sitting erect with the right shoulder, arm, and hand held straight overhead 
with the thumb lying on the first knuckle of the index finger is calculated as follows: 
OVERHEAD FINGERTIP REACH SITTING minus ANSUR mean of HAND LENGTH 
plus ANSUR mean of WRIST-THUMBTIP LENGTH. 

waistbackverticalomphalion
(D39) WAIST BACK, VERTICAL (OMPHALION)* 
The vertical distance between the cervicale landmark and the waist at the level of the 
navel (omphalion) is calculated as follows: CERVICALE HEIGHT minus WAIST 
HEIGHT (OMPHALION). 

waistbuttockdropomphalion
(D40) WAIST-BUTTOCK DROP (OMPHALION) 
The difference between the circumference of the waist at the level of the navel 
(omphalion) and the circumference at the level of the buttock point landmarks is 
calculated 
as 
follows: 
BUTTOCK 
CIRCUMFERENCE 
minus 
WAIST 
CIRCUMFERENCE (OMPHALION). 

waistwaistomphalionovershoulder
(D41) WAIST-WAIST (OMPHALION) OVER SHOULDER 
The vertical circumference of the upper torso between the front of the waist at the navel 
(omphalion) passing up over the midpoint between the sternum and the anterior 
axillary fold, over the midshoulder landmark, and down the back to the waist 
(omphalion) posterior landmark is calculated as follows: VERTICAL TRUNK 
CIRCUMFERENCE (USA) minus CROTCH LENGTH (OMPHALION). 

